What we're gonna build today is we're
gonna build a custom bot for slack.
That custom bot is going
to feature a slash command,
which will allow someone
to say I have a request and
that request is going to take user
input and save that user input to notion.
We're also gonna have a context shortcut
so the little three dots on a message.
Where you can drop that down and
then click a process reminder so
that the bot will tell somebody like,
hey, this looks like it's a request.
If you want us to measure this, you've
got to put it into the request form,
here's the slash command
to make that happen.
And then we wanna set up a weekly reminder
for the team, for those incoming tasks for
anything that hasn't been handled.
We wanna make sure that we're letting
people know like, hey, you've got requests
in your queue don't drop those,
because this is the other part.
When you put a process in place, you have
to adhere to that process unflinchingly
as a team, or else everybody else in the
company learns that your process is flaky.
And people won't use flaky processes,
this is, we've seen this in tech,
we've seen this in interpersonal
communication and all over the place.
If something is inconsistently applied,
you stop trusting it, and
that means you're less likely to do it.
So as a team,
when you put a process in place,
you need to make sure it's
a process you can 100% follow.
And that's why things like having a weekly
reminder are really useful because
you can see, here are the tasks
that we haven't handled.
You can go handle them right away as
part of your weekly standup meeting or
a weekly triage session or
whatever it is where you go and make
sure that everything has been evaluated.
You've asked questions if
something needs clarification,
assigned it back to
the person who requested it.
You've assigned it to a team member if
it's something that's ready to be worked
on, or you've said, this isn't something
we can handle if it's outside of what you
can prioritize right now.
But in any case,
you are actually going in and
prioritizing these things because
that builds trust in your process.
People know that if they put
something into the slash command,
that they will get a response in
a reasonable timeframe from your team.
So how we're gonna build
that is we are gonna,
the biggest part is we're gonna set up
a live tunnel so that we can test locally.
This is one of the things that gets really
challenging when you start building with
third party tools that are,
you know, Slack bots and other types of
commands that rely on a live service.
When you're developing locally,
you don't have a live URL that you can
put into these services, which often
means that what you're gonna end up
doing is having to deploy your command.
And have it up on a production URL for
testing which makes it so slow and so
frustrating, so
instead what we're gonna do is we're
gonna use a live tunneling service.
That will allow us to keep up a local
development environment running,
but also give it a live URL so
that we can test as we go.
We're gonna use serverless
functions to power our command so
that we can keep it free.
Our bot does not need to
be constantly running.
Our bot is all based on incoming requests.
So you're gonna run a slash command which
says, hey bot, that'll wake the bot up.
You've got the cron job,
which is gonna be running on a regular
schedule, so that'll wake the bot up,
and each of these things is something
that is on a like a pull basis.
We don't need the on a push basis, sorry.
We don't need the command to be
listening or reading every message or
anything like that, it's so we'll use
a serverless function, keep it free.
Cron jobs are gonna be used to
handle our weekly reminders and,
this is gonna be based
on a few accounts so
the first thing is we're gonna
be working from a GitHub repo.
So you'll need a GitHub account if you
wanna push and deploy this we are going
to be working in Slack today so you'll
need a Slack account with a workspace.
You can create one of these for
free At slack.com and
you'll just need admin access.
So if you have admin access to a Slack
account you are welcome to create a test
channel and
work in there with no other friends so
you're not you know being
noisy to your team.
Or if you wanna be sure that you
are not disrupting your team,
just create a new workspace and
work in there first and
then you can port this bot, to any
workspace that you want to use it in.
You're gonna be using Notion, so
you wanna have a Notion account and
a Notion workspace that has API access,
so somewhere where you're an admin.
We're gonna be creating one database
in it that we read and write from, so
you'll just need the ability to
create a bot that can do that.
We're gonna be using Netlify for
the serverless functions for
the live tunnel and for the Cron jobs,
so to follow along with this tutorial,
you're gonna want a Netlify account,
it's free.
Again, everything that we're using
today is gonna be on free tier, so
no paid accounts or anything.
This account is gonna be how we deploy
things, how we set up the live tunnel.
You could use something like ngrok, but
it's a lot of setup and it's a little more
handson than using a Netlify dev command,
so that's why I went with Netlify.
Again, you could use ngrok and then any
serverless functions provider that you
wish, this is not a workshop that's
like tied to this specific account.
This is just the way that I
found that is the fastest and
least painful to get things set up.
The free tier of these services
are gonna be all you need, again,
just as a reminder, tools that you gonna
need, you gonna need git on your computer.
You gonna need Node v16 higher,
the Netlify CLI is how we're
gonna set up that live tunnel,
so y'all gonna need that. I will walk you through in setting up that part.
You'll need permission to clone repos and
run third-party code on your
computer. If you are on a work computer that can sometimes be an issue if your computer is really locked down. So, double check that before you get started,
make sure that you have permission
to clone, and push to GitHub repos.
So a few things that I'll be using
that aren't required for this but
just to give some context
on the stack that I use.
VS code is what I'll be using
is both my code editor and
as my terminal I like it,
you can use whatever you want.
GitHub CLI, I use this for managing repos,
it's delightful to use,
i love it, you don't need it, but
that's what I'll be using whenever you see
the GH command, that's the GitHub CLI.
And again, these are my preferences
they're not requirements you can work with
or without these if you wish.
Some assumed knowledge, what I assume
you're gonna know as I go through this
workshop, some intermediate knowledge of
JavaScript, so, nothing super in-depth.
This isn't gonna be like an algorithms
whiteboard interview or anything.
But what I will be assuming is that
you understand the basic grammar of
the language, you know, how to set up,
how to create variables,
how to create functions,
how to do a loop and things like that.
It just, we won't do like an intro to
JavaScript as part of this workshop.
We'll be sending and
receiving data via API, and
I'm not gonna go deep into the specifics
of that, so we'll be using the Fetch API.
If you've never used the Fetch API, the
docs are on the Mozilla developer network,
the MDN docs, so go check those out,
but you won't need the depth of it.
You just need to know what I'm doing and
I will walk through that.
Again, if you have questions,
please do ask.
We'll be running some commands
in the terminal, and this is,
you can just copy paste what I do.
But I am gonna assume that you
are aware of where your terminal is and
how to run a command in it.
Basic awareness of TypeScript, we're gonna
be using types for autocomplete today.
I've already written all of the types
that you're gonna need, and
they're in the starter repo
that I'll show in a minute, so
you don't need to write TypeScript really.
We might add a couple types to
functions and things as we go, but
we're not gonna be setting up types or
interfaces or anything like that.
So you don't need to know how to write
TypeScript as much as you just need
to know That TypeScript exists and
that we're using it a little bit.
And yeah, again, you don't need to
be a pro for any of these things.
You are welcome to ask questions and
let me know if something doesn't make
sense and I'll try to explain it.
But these are the things that I'm kind of
coming in with a baseline assumption of.